Here we discuss how to set up a local MathHub working copy on Debian-based systems like Ubuntu, for other *NIX systems proceed analogously. 

## Setup Local MathHub Working Copy

### Dependencies

The lmh installer requires the following programs installed to function properly: 

* pip
  * python module: psutil
  * python module: argparse
* git

In addition to the installer dependencies the following are required for lmh to run properly:

* svn
* pdflatex, preferably TexLive 2013 or newer
* perl with cpanminus installed
* libxml2 
* libxslt
* java

On newer Ubuntu / Debian systems, all required packages may be installed with the following command: 

```bash
sudo apt-get install python python-pip python-psutil subversion texlive cpanminus libxml2-dev libxslt-dev
```

### Installation

After having installed the dependencies, you can install lmh. 

For this, you can first download the installer with pip. This will require superuser rights, so depending on your system you might have to use ```sudo```. 

```bash
pip install lmh 
```

Then you can run the following command as a normal user: 

```bash
lmh core --install
lmh setup
```

This will install lmh into ```$HOME/localmh``` by default. If you want to change the installation directory, you can use ```lmh core --install-to /somewhere/else```. If you have lmh installed and want to find out the installation directory, you can use ```lmh root```. 

In case ```lmh setup``` fails, please make sure you have all the prerequestites installed. 

## Installing Repositories

Now, you can install the repositories you want to work on via 

```bash
lmh install group/repo
```
where ```group``` is the repository group on [GL.MathHub.info](GL.MathHub.info) and ```repos``` the repository name ([details](http://mathhub.info/help/gl-organization)). For instance for the SMGloM repository:

```bash
lmh install smglom/smglom

```

This will check out the requested repositories and all those they depend on and add them to the local MathHub copy at ```$(lmh root)/MathHub/group/repo```. Note that the actual flexiforms are in the source directory. Note that some repositories are private, and you need to authenticate in the installation process. The most convenient way is to deploy an SSH key, which alleviates the need for passwords. The final step is to generate all auxiliary files with

```bash
lmh gen --sms --localpaths --alltex group/repo
```

This generates the sTeX Module Signatures (.sms files) and for each directory the files localpaths.tex for path managements and all.tex that includes all sTeX modules. Now we are ready for working with the repository as shown below.

You can also run the command 

```bash
lmh gen --sms --localpaths --alltex
```

which will generate auxiliary files for all repositories. 

## Generating PDF

The most convenient way of viewing (and proofreading) flexiforms in the local editing workflow is to generate PDF from them. This can be done simply by running pdflatex over them or using an lmh tool: 

```bash
lmh pdf filename.tex
```

This will re-generate ```filename.pdf``` from ```filename.tex``` (and update all the local .sms files accordingly) if necessary. To force regeneration, use the ```--force``` argument of ```lmh pdf```. To generate all tex files in the current directory, simply use:

```bash
lmh pdf
```

without a filename argument. If a file has dependencies outside of the directory, this command will **not** generate them and you will have to regenerate them as described in the previous section. 

PDF generation may generate logfiles which are called ```filename.pdflog```

## Generating OMDOC

The operational flexiform representation format in MathHub.info is the [OMDoc](https://trac.omdoc.org/OMDoc) format. It can be generated by using ```lmh omdoc``` analogously to the PDF generation above. The log files are called ```filename.ltxlog```. 

## Generating XHTML

The OMDoc files are content representations cannot be directly viewed and interacted with. But with a local installation of the MMT system, we can generate active (semantically annotated, instrumented) XHTML documents that behave like the active documents on the MathHub portal. ```lmh xhtml``` does the trick. 

## Editing Flexiforms

Before any local edits, the local working copy should be updated via ```lmh update```. After that, the sTeX files can be edited with the editor of your choice or transformed with batch tools. The changes can be validated by generating PDF or OMDoc. New files can be staged (added to the repository) with ```git add file```, changes committed with ```lmh commit -m "Commit Message"```, pushed to MathHub with ```lmh push```, and the status queried with ```lmh status```. Note that even though all git commands are possible, they are restricted to the current repository. The lmh actions have the advantage that they transcend repository borders and apply to the current directory in the MathHub working copy, so we recommend using that where possible.

So a typical editing cycle consists of: 

```
lmh update
# do some editing with your favorite editor
lmh commit
lmh push
```

If you have done edits on other repositories (or are not sure whether you may have, adding the -a option to the last two will give you peace of mind. 

### Multi-Repository Actions
The most important lmh actions are the following ones

* ```lmh update``` updates the current subdirectory in the working copy from the respective repositories (```lmh update -a``` the whole working copy)
* ```lmh commit -m "message"``` commits the current subdirectory in the working copy (```lmh commit -a -m "message"``` the whole working copy)
* ```lmh push``` pushes all committed changes from the current directory in the working copy to the respective repositories (```lmh push -a the whole working copy).

### Creating a new MathHub repository

To create a MathHub repository, you need to: 

* log into [http://gl.mathhub.info](http://gl.mathhub.info) and go to the new projects page and configure the project name (your choice) and the namespace (the project group referred to above). We will use the repository mkohlhase/test as an example below. 
* install the repository in the MathHub working copy with ```lmh install mkohlhase/test```. As this is an un-initialized repository, lmh reports some warnings and errors.
* we initialize the repository with ```lmh init```, which generates the files build.msl, serve.msl, META-INF/MANIFEST.MF, lib/pre.tex, lib/post.tex, lib/WApersons.tex which are needed by MathHub and a MathHub/sTeX-specific .gitignore (background).
* We add them to the repository with ```git add *.msl META-INF/MANIFEST.MF```.
If the repository depends on other MathHub repositories, we can add them in the line starting with dependencies: in META-INF/MANIFEST.MF .

* We commit them with ```git commit -a -m "new"``` and push with ```git push origin master```. 

The flexiforms in the repository belong into the source subdirectory. Apart from configurations, users should make no changes outside that directory. 

## Reporting issues

If you find an issue with lmh, please report it at [http://gl.mathhub.info/MathHub/localmh/issues](http://gl.mathhub.info/MathHub/localmh/issues). Make sure you have all dependencies installed before filing an issue. 
